Raising a real number's universe level (#1286)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/real-numbers/raising-universe-levels-real-numbers.lagda.md

# Raising the universe levels of real numbers

```agda
module real-numbers.raising-universe-levels-real-numbers where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import elementary-number-theory.rational-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.strict-inequality-rational-numbers

open import foundation.cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.conjunction
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.disjunction
open import foundation.existential-quantification
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.negation
open import foundation.raising-universe-levels
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import real-numbers.dedekind-real-numbers
```

</details>

## Idea

> Real numbers have designated universe levels. For any real number, we can
> construct an equivalent real number in any higher universe.

Reviewer: Some hyperlinks are needed in this section. Could you also say in a sentence what it means for two real numbers of different universe levels to be equivalent?

```suggestion
[Real numbers](real-numbers.dedekind-real-numbers.md) have designated [universe levels](foundation.universe-levels.md). For any real number, we can
construct an equivalent real number in any higher universe. This means that ...
```

Author: I agree.  A step towards this is in #1295.

# Raising the universe levels of real numbers

```agda
module real-numbers.raising-universe-levels-real-numbers where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import elementary-number-theory.rational-numbers
open import elementary-number-theory.strict-inequality-rational-numbers

open import foundation.cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.conjunction
open import foundation.dependent-pair-types
open import foundation.disjunction
open import foundation.existential-quantification
open import foundation.function-types
open import foundation.functoriality-cartesian-product-types
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.inhabited-subtypes
open import foundation.logical-equivalences
open import foundation.negation
open import foundation.raising-universe-levels
open import foundation.subtypes
open import foundation.universe-levels

open import logic.functoriality-existential-quantification

open import real-numbers.dedekind-real-numbers
open import real-numbers.lower-dedekind-real-numbers
open import real-numbers.similarity-real-numbers
open import real-numbers.upper-dedekind-real-numbers
```

</details>

## Idea

> [Real numbers](real-numbers.dedekind-real-numbers.md) are defined at specific
> [universe levels](foundation.universe-levels.md), which do not overlap.
> 
> For any real number, we can construct a
> [similar](real-numbers.similarity-real-numbers.md) real number in any higher
> universe.

Reviewer 2: It's unclear to me what you mean by the first sentence here. Is the point that we have a hierarchy of real numbers indexed by universe levels, so a "small real number" is not syntactically the same as a "large real number" relative to some universe?

```suggestion
For every [universe](foundation.universe-levels.md) `𝒰` there is a type of
[real numbers](real-numbers.dedekind-real-numbers.md) `ℝ` relative to `𝒰`,
`ℝ 𝒰`. Given a larger universe `𝒱`, then we may
{{#concept "raise" Disambiguation="a dedekind real number" Agda=raise-ℝ}} a real
number `x` from the universe `𝒰` to a
[similar](real-numbers.similarity-real-numbers.md) real number in the universe
`𝒱`.
```
